# Part 2 ‐ Experiment and metrics design
The neighboring cities of Gotham and Metropolis have complementary circadian rhythms: on weekdays, Ultimate Gotham is most active at night, and Ultimate Metropolis is most active
during the day. On weekends, there is reasonable activity in both cities.<br>
However, a toll bridge, with a two way toll, between the two cities causes driver partners to tend to be exclusive to each city. The Ultimate managers of city operations for the two cities have proposed an experiment to encourage driver partners to be available in both cities, by reimbursing all toll costs.
1. What would you choose as the key measure of success of this experiment in encouraging driver partners to serve both cities, and why would you choose this metric?
**Answer:** This kind of depends on what kind of data they have already, but assuming they have toll charge data before they implement this policy, a key metric might be how much reimbursing toll costs they receive. The more they receive, the more partner drivers are crossing the bridge, assuming they are reimbursing legally. In addition, if they have time stamps for this data, we should see crossing the bridge data into the city that has most demand at that time, since this is a two way bridge. Overtime, we would expect partner drivers to decrease in both cities since drivers since there is not much overlap for demand in both cities, so partner drivers would be active in the city that has demand.
2. Describe a practical experiment you would design to compare the effectiveness of the proposed change in relation to the key measure of success. Please provide details on:
- how you will implement the experiment? **Answer** Assuming I have toll data seperated by direction, for night hours, I would expect significant difference in toll data in one direction compared to another. I would collect toll data for reimbursed drivers for each side per hour. I would expect demand(reimbursement) for traffic to Gotham to be higher over night hours compared to Metropolis during weekdays. Similarly, I would expect demand for traffic to Metropolis to be higher over daytime hours compared to Metropolis during weekdays. I expect demand direction over the bridge during the day to be the same during the weekends.
- what statistical test(s) you will conduct to verify the significance of the observation? **Answer** I would just use a one sided t test, for the weekday analysis, and a 2 sided t test during weekend analysis. I would calculate mean values over the days over those time period for each group.
- how you would interpret the results and provide recommendations to the city operations team along with any caveats? **Answer**If there is a significant difference between groups, in the direction of demand, for both experiments, and the program budget is not exceeded, I would recommend they keep the program. I would ask them what numbers they want to hit in terms of cars off the road in both their cities.